Reactive MongoDB with Panache (#5567)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/mongodb-panache.adoc

`ObjectId` can be difficult to use if you want to expose its value in your REST service.
So we created JSON-B and Jackson providers to serialize/deserialize them as a `String` which are are automatically registered if your project depends on one of the RESTEasy with JSON-B or RESTEasy with Jackson extensions.

== Reactive Entities and Repositories

MongoDB with Panaches allows using reactive style implementation for both entities and repositories.
For this, you need to use the Reactive variants when defining your entities : `ReactivePanacheMongoEntity` or `ReactivePanacheMongoEntityBase`
and when defining your repositories: `ReactivePanacheMongoRepository` or `ReactivePanacheMongoRepositoryBase`.

The reactive variant of the `Person` class will be:

[source,java]
----
public class ReactivePerson extends ReactivePanacheMongoEntity {

> public String name;

Reviewer: Indentation issue?

Author: Fixed!

person.status = Status.Dead;

// Your must call update() in order to send your entity modifications to MongoDB
CompletionStage<Void> cs2 = person.update();

// delete it
CompletionStage<Void> cs3 = person.delete();

// getting a list of all persons
CompletionStage<List<ReactivePerson>> allPersons = ReactivePerson.listAll();

// finding a specific person by ID
CompletionStage<ReactivePerson> personById = ReactivePerson.findById(personId);

// finding a specific person by ID via an Optional
CompletionStage<Optional<ReactivePerson>> optional = ReactivePerson.findByIdOptional(personId);
personById = optional.thenApply(o -> o.orElseThrow(() -> new NotFoundException()));

// finding all living persons
CompletionStage<List<ReactivePerson>> livingPersons = ReactivePerson.list("status", Status.Alive);

// counting all persons
CompletionStage<Long> countAll = ReactivePerson.count();

// counting all living persons
CompletionStage<Long> countAlive = ReactivePerson.count("status", Status.Alive);

// delete all living persons
CompletionStage<Long>  deleteCount = ReactivePerson.delete("status", Status.Alive);

// delete all persons
deleteCount = ReactivePerson.deleteAll();
----

> TIP: If you use MongoDB with Panache in conjunction with Resteasy, you can directly return a reactive type inside your JAX-RS resource endpoint as Resteasy will handle it correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TIP: If you use MongoDB with Panache in conjunction with RESTEasy, you can directly return a reactive type inside your JAX-RS resource endpoint as RESTEasy will handle it correctly.
```

> The same query facility exist for the reactive types, but the `stream()` methods acts differently: it returns a reactive stream `Publisher` instead of a `Stream`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same query facility exists for the reactive types, but the `stream()` methods act differently: they return a reactive stream `Publisher` instead of a `Stream`.
```

> It allows more advanced reactive use case, for example you can use it to send server-sent events (SSE) via Resteasy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It allows more advanced reactive use cases, for example you can use it to send server-sent events (SSE) via RESTEasy:
```

[source,java]
----
import org.jboss.resteasy.annotations.SseElementType;
import org.reactivestreams.Publisher;
import javax.ws.rs.GET;
import javax.ws.rs.Path;
import javax.ws.rs.Produces;

@GET
@Path("/stream")
@Produces(MediaType.SERVER_SENT_EVENTS)
@SseElementType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)
public Publisher<ReactivePerson> streamPersons() {
    return ReactivePerson.streamAll();
}
----

> TIP: `@SseElementType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)` tells Resteasy to serialize the object in JSON.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TIP: `@SseElementType(MediaType.APPLICATION_JSON)` tells RESTEasy to serialize the object in JSON.
```
